CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Campus Guide

Thank you for contributing to the Campus Guide project! This document outlines the guidelines and workflows for contributing to this repository.

## Table of Contents
- [Branch Strategy](#branch-strategy)
- [Commit Guidelines](#commit-guidelines)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Code Style](#code-style)
- [Testing Requirements](#testing-requirements)

## Branch Strategy

We follow a simplified Git Flow strategy:

### Main Branches
- `main` - Production-ready code. Protected branch.
- `develop` - Integration branch for features. Protected branch.

### Supporting Branches
- `feature/*` - New features (e.g., `feature/indoor-navigation`)
- `bugfix/*` - Bug fixes (e.g., `bugfix/map-loading-issue`)
- `hotfix/*` - Urgent production fixes (e.g., `hotfix/crash-on-startup`)

### Branch Naming Convention
```
<type>/<short-description>

Examples:
feature/epic1-campus-map
feature/epic2-outdoor-directions
bugfix/fix-building-popup
hotfix/api-key-exposure
```

## Commit Guidelines

We follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification:

### Format
```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

### Types
- `feat` - New feature
- `fix` - Bug fix
- `docs` - Documentation changes
- `style` - Code style changes (formatting, etc.)
- `refactor` - Code refactoring
- `test` - Adding or updating tests
- `chore` - Maintenance tasks
- `ci` - CI/CD changes

### Examples
```
feat(map): add SGW campus building overlay
fix(navigation): resolve route calculation error
docs(readme): update setup instructions
test(directions): add unit tests for route service
```

## Pull Request Process

1. **Create a branch** from `develop` following the naming convention
2. **Make your changes** with appropriate commits
3. **Push your branch** to the remote repository
4. **Open a Pull Request** to `develop`
5. **Fill out the PR template** completely
6. **Request reviews** from at least one team member
7. **Address feedback** and make necessary changes
8. **Merge** once approved and CI passes

### PR Requirements
- All CI checks must pass
- At least 1 approval required
- No unresolved conversations
- Branch must be up-to-date with target branch

## Code Style

### Kotlin
- Follow [Kotlin coding conventions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/coding-conventions.html)
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Keep functions small and focused
- Document public APIs with KDoc

### XML (Layouts)
- Use `snake_case` for resource IDs
- Prefix IDs with view type (e.g., `btn_submit`, `tv_title`, `rv_buildings`)
- Use `@string` resources for all user-facing text

### Project Structure
```
app/
├── src/
│   ├── main/
│   │   ├── java/com/campusguide/
│   │   │   ├── data/          # Data layer (repositories, data sources)
│   │   │   ├── domain/        # Domain layer (use cases, models)
│   │   │   ├── presentation/  # UI layer (activities, fragments, viewmodels)
│   │   │   └── di/            # Dependency injection
│   │   └── res/
│   └── test/                  # Unit tests
└── build.gradle.kts
```

## Testing Requirements

### Unit Tests
- Write unit tests for all business logic
- Aim for meaningful coverage of critical paths
- Use descriptive test names

### Test Naming Convention
```kotlin
@Test
fun `methodName should expectedBehavior when condition`() {
    // Given
    // When
    // Then
}
```

### Running Tests
```bash
# Run all unit tests
./gradlew testDebugUnitTest

# Run tests with coverage
./gradlew testDebugUnitTestCoverage
```

## Getting Help

- Check existing issues and PRs before creating new ones
- Use GitHub Discussions for questions
- Tag relevant team members in your PR

## Team Contacts

### Frontend Team
- Shadi Marzouk, Omar Chabti, Samuel Vachon, Abdeljalil Sennaoui, Kevin Ung

### Backend Team
- Anh Vi Mac, Hossam Mostafa, Hossam Khalifa, Adam Oughourlian, Oscar Mirontsuk, Loucif Mohamed-Rabah-Ishaq

Commit message:

Update branch strategy and CI to use main only
Switched from Git Flow to trunk-based development in CONTRIBUTING.md, removing references to the 'develop' branch. Updated Android CI and code quality workflows to trigger only on the 'main' branch for both push and pull request events.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Campus Guide

Thank you for contributing to the Campus Guide project! This document outlines the guidelines and workflows for contributing to this repository.

## Table of Contents
- [Branch Strategy](#branch-strategy)
- [Commit Guidelines](#commit-guidelines)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Code Style](#code-style)
- [Testing Requirements](#testing-requirements)

## Branch Strategy

We use a trunk-based development strategy with feature branches:

### Main Branch
- `main` - Production-ready code. Protected branch.

### Supporting Branches
- `feature/*` - New features (e.g., `feature/indoor-navigation`)
- `bugfix/*` - Bug fixes (e.g., `bugfix/map-loading-issue`)
- `hotfix/*` - Urgent production fixes (e.g., `hotfix/crash-on-startup`)

### Branch Naming Convention
```
<type>/<short-description>

Examples:
feature/epic1-campus-map
feature/epic2-outdoor-directions
bugfix/fix-building-popup
hotfix/api-key-exposure
```

## Commit Guidelines

We follow the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification:

### Format
```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer]
```

### Types
- `feat` - New feature
- `fix` - Bug fix
- `docs` - Documentation changes
- `style` - Code style changes (formatting, etc.)
- `refactor` - Code refactoring
- `test` - Adding or updating tests
- `chore` - Maintenance tasks
- `ci` - CI/CD changes

### Examples
```
feat(map): add SGW campus building overlay
fix(navigation): resolve route calculation error
docs(readme): update setup instructions
test(directions): add unit tests for route service
```

## Pull Request Process

1. **Create a branch** from `main` following the naming convention
2. **Make your changes** with appropriate commits
3. **Push your branch** to the remote repository
4. **Open a Pull Request** to `main`
5. **Fill out the PR template** completely
6. **Request reviews** from at least one team member
7. **Address feedback** and make necessary changes
8. **Merge** once approved and CI passes

### PR Requirements
- All CI checks must pass
- At least 1 approval required
- No unresolved conversations
- Branch must be up-to-date with target branch

## Code Style

### Kotlin
- Follow [Kotlin coding conventions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/coding-conventions.html)
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Keep functions small and focused
- Document public APIs with KDoc

### XML (Layouts)
- Use `snake_case` for resource IDs
- Prefix IDs with view type (e.g., `btn_submit`, `tv_title`, `rv_buildings`)
- Use `@string` resources for all user-facing text

### Project Structure
```
app/
├── src/
│   ├── main/
│   │   ├── java/com/campusguide/
│   │   │   ├── data/          # Data layer (repositories, data sources)
│   │   │   ├── domain/        # Domain layer (use cases, models)
│   │   │   ├── presentation/  # UI layer (activities, fragments, viewmodels)
│   │   │   └── di/            # Dependency injection
│   │   └── res/
│   └── test/                  # Unit tests
└── build.gradle.kts
```

## Testing Requirements

### Unit Tests
- Write unit tests for all business logic
- Aim for meaningful coverage of critical paths
- Use descriptive test names

### Test Naming Convention
```kotlin
@Test
fun `methodName should expectedBehavior when condition`() {
    // Given
    // When
    // Then
}
```

### Running Tests
```bash
# Run all unit tests
./gradlew testDebugUnitTest

# Run tests with coverage
./gradlew testDebugUnitTestCoverage
```

## Getting Help

- Check existing issues and PRs before creating new ones
- Use GitHub Discussions for questions
- Tag relevant team members in your PR

## Team Contacts

### Frontend Team
- Shadi Marzouk, Omar Chabti, Samuel Vachon, Abdeljalil Sennaoui, Kevin Ung

### Backend Team
- Anh Vi Mac, Hossam Mostafa, Hossam Khalifa, Adam Oughourlian, Oscar Mirontsuk, Loucif Mohamed-Rabah-Ishaq
